basically, I want to just
do a video where we talk about the book
a little bit
we've introduced the fact that we doing it
but we haven't actually really spoken much
about the book itself, the content.
You know, I know this channel is
“Gary’s
Economics”, it’s about the economics.
But this book is going to be
a massive part of
how this project goes forwards this year,
it’s a massive opportunity
to get a ton of publicity.
And it's another avenue to get
this message out to a ton of people.
And I want the people
who've been watching this channel
for a long time, who have been
with this channel for a long time
to understand what we're doing,
And I just want to get like,
I want the viewers, especially
if you've been around for a long time.
I want to get them on board
on what they're doing.
Help them to understand
what's going to happen, because, you know,
hopefully, touch wood we are going to get
like a ton of publicity coming up.
February, March book comes out March 5th.
And I just want everybody to feel like
we're doing this together, basically.
I'm super,
super passionate about this book.
I love this book.
And I put a lot of myself
and my emotions into this book,
and I want people to read it
because I think that
it's a really powerful way
of getting our message out there.
the book is mainly when I was a trader.
So I started as a trader in 2008,
which is 15 years ago.
The book ends in 2014,
which is nine years ago now.
So really like, a
lot of I wrote, I wrote it
by kind of inhabiting that space.
You go back to where you were at the time
and how you felt at the time.
You just kind of try to write it
how it was, how it felt at the time.
And then
one thing that I kind of realised
writing it.
There are people who watch the channel
will know like I went through quite
a lot of mad stuff when I was a trader
like I became Citi Bank’s top trader
by basically betting on the collapse
of the global economy when I was just 24,
you know, I won that job in a card game
when I was 20 years old.
You know, I worked with some crazy people,
and when I tried to quit,
there were some pretty severe threats
thrown at me which were pretty stressful.
And I went through like a lot
of sort of mental health difficulties
which you’ll read about in the book.
But rewriting
the book, what I realised was
how alone I was in the
time, like doing the things I was doing.
And I didn’t...
when I was at the time and the space
I didn’t really realise it,
but the experience
of having this sort of crazy job,
which paid me crazy amounts of money
by betting on these terrible things.
It kind of started to isolate me
a little bit from the people around me,
and I was dealing with all this mad stuff
that was happening like,
my instinct as a young man
in my early twenties, mid
twenties was not to sort of
ask people around me for help.
And in a weird way,
it was quite nice to write it now
because you kind of
you get to feel
and I got to feel almost like I, me
now was being there for me
then by sort of writing it now.
Like it sort of, you know,
I was a very young man
when these things happened,
and I kind of got to feel like now
in this like hypothetical way,
I can sort of be there with that person.
And I not only that,
but also we can share this book
with,
you know, hopefully tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands, millions of people.
You know,
I would love for millions of people
to read this story and see what happened.
And also,
I think, during the course of this story,
it's a story of how I went from sort of
like a poor kid
to a millionaire.
But it's also a story of how I realised
that the world is totally fucked.
You know, this is a realisation
that I made when I was
24, that was really the year
that I started to realise, like,
okay, things are totally fucked.
Things are going to be
totally terrible forever. And
it was
my job to do those analyses at the time.
And I went and I put the bet on
because that was my job.
And I made millions of pounds
And everybody said,
“Fantastic, you’re the best trader
in the world, well done.” And it was,
it's crazy, right?
It’s a crazy thing to happen.
There's these stories in the book of
sort of my first bonus and how
it was much more than I expected
it was going to be.
And I didn't know who can I tell.
And I felt like I couldn’t
tell my parents.
I felt like I couldn't tell my friends.
I felt like I couldn’t tell my girlfriend.
It’s such a crazy experience and I think
you know, loads of
people are going to hear it and be like,
you made that much money
when you were, how old was I then?
So I’d just turned 23.
Young basically when that happened.
But weirdly, like when I went back
and sort of re-lived it,
I experienced it as a
traumatic event
in a way, like a shocking event.
I think I never really sort of
stopped asking myself
until I started writing this book.
How has that affected
you as a person, you know?
When I go to parties and people say, “What
do you do?” The truth is,
I am somebody
who has made millions of pounds
by betting on the permanent collapse
of the global economy
and I've been judged
to be one of the best traders in the world
that knowing this thing,
and I'm consistently right
predicting this thing,
and I'm very confident
that that will happen.
What do you tell someone,?
You know, I make money
because I know that the global economy
is going to collapse, you know,
But this book has given me
like a kind of a
space to rewrite my history
in such a way that rather than
being given and realising these terrible,
terrible bits of information
and having absolutely nothing you can do
about it, rather than make money,
it's given me a space in a way
that I can tell this story
to other people in such a way
that hopefully
they can be convinced
that we need to stop this.
So it's turned this
kind of horrible experience.
And I say that like totally aware
that I've made a lot of money out of this,
and it's given me a kind of financial
independence a lot people don't have.
But this isolating experience,
this isolating knowledge of a bad thing
that's going to happen.
Hopefully it's given me a way
to turn that into, you know,
a warning for other people.
So it was hard to write
and it was emotional and it was often sad.
But that said, you know,
I wanted to make it funny.
And I think there are funny moments in it.
But hopefully it turned
a bad experience into something
which could be positive.
And hopefully it's going to build us
that platform.
It's going to hopefully sort of, you know,
kick the doors down and say, listen,
we need to do something.
We need to make things change.
There's those bits in the book
where you're starting to ask the questions
about inequality and you're asking
people around you about it.
And it's almost like you're
speaking to a brick wall sometimes.
Are those are the moments
where you were like, I've got to get out.
The subject of leaving,
leaving finance or in a bigger picture,
like, walking away from money
is a big
question in my life and the big question
of the book in a sense,
like why did I leave?
Why don't other people leave?
Should you leave?
You know, do you have
a moral responsibility to leave?
Because the truth of the matter
is, it's not like,
you leaving doesn't make no difference.
You know,
you gotta big city job
and you quit, it’s not going
to stop the collapse of the economy,
you know what I mean?
And there’s this one conversation I have
in the book with the Arthur character,
which is, you know, it's
coming towards the end of the book
Where I start to realise, it's
surprisingly late,
after I start betting on these things.
Probably like a year and a half, two years
after I start betting on these things,
that I start to ask the questions like,
should we do something about this?
You know what I mean, is this a thing,
because I don't come
from a political family
and I was just doing my job.
And then I start thinking,
should we do something,
and I have this conversation
with this trader.
And I'm like, should we do something?
And he's like, well we did something,
we put the trade on.
And I'm like,
you know, I’m not talking about the trade.
It's not about the trade.
Should we do something?
And he's like, well, what do you do? What
are you going to do?
And, you know, I used to make millions
of pounds betting on these things.
It's not like I was able to just walk out
and stop it from happening.
I work hard at this.
I'm trying to stop it.
But there’s a question of why did I leave?
And it's not just me.
There's a lot of characters in the book
who are sort of
bouncing around the ideas in their head,
should I leave?
And I suppose there's sort of there's two
obvious
contrasting characters in the book,
which is me, and Caleb, my boss.
And we both, you know,
consider
quitting over the course of the book
and we end up taking
very different paths.
And there's this
question of, what is your responsibility
as a human being?
You know what I mean?
How do you
live your life in this world
that we live in
where things are getting worse
quite quickly?
And first and foremost, I'm not the one
who's on the sharp end of it, right?
But every single person out there
watching this video
has this question to ask themselves,
which is, shit's collapsing.
I can't stop it.
So what do I do?
You know, and this is, of course,
most people are not,
you know, big multimillion pound traders.
But everybody has this question of
we live in this country and this society
and this world
where the economy is slowly falling apart.
And we all have this
question inside ourselves.
And, you know, some of us
hear it louder than others.
Well, what should I do? What do you do?
So I quit trading in 2014,
and ever since then I've been, you know,
with varying degrees of intensity,
trying to figure out how we can stop this.
It's not easy, you know what I mean?
It's not like, some are like “Why don’t
you run for parliament?”
But it's not like
I just become a Labour MP and I stop this.
It's more difficult than that, you know?
And I tried various
things, I've worked for think tanks.
I made my website.
I went back to university,
I did a master's degree before
I kind of settled on this.
Okay, we're going to try and
build a YouTube, build social media.
Use my personal sort of face,
use my myself as a brand
to try to bring people into this and
initially I was quite protective
of my personal story
just because, you know, like most people
I didn't want to like, splash my
personal story all over the newspapers
and I wanted to try and keep
a little bit of privacy.
And we were able and we have been able
to build up like a decent community
and a decent like sort of movement
on the back of economics information.
But I think I kind of knew from the start
like, this story's a good fucking story.
I was expelled from school at 16,
I won my job in a card game
and I've become the top trader
in the world
by betting on the collapse
of the global economy.
And then, like I have, you know,
I get basically threatened
when I try to leave and have this sort of
very difficult journey out.
I kind of knew that
if we can find the right
vehicle for this story,
that it could potentially
be a passport to a much bigger audience.
And this is what we're going to need.
Look, it's been great
growing this YouTube, and I'm
very thankful for the support of everyone
who's been watching, everyone who's been
sharing the videos from the start.
But we need to be bigger.
We just need to be bigger.
So I started writing this book,
you know, a year and a half ago,
and I just thought this could be it,
you know, this could be our way.
And in the course of us all
fell in love with writing it
and I think this is such a...
I think people watching,
they might think that the book is going
to be kind of like the YouTube channel,
you know, like vignettes,
short stories, my time in trading
and how it relates to the economy.
The book is...
I wanted the book to be like a novel,
to be like a film.
I want you to be
there.
19 year old Gary Stevenson, at LSE.
21 year old Gary Stevenson
walking onto the trading floor
for the first time, 23, 24 year old Gary
Stevenson realising what's happening,
becoming the best trader in the world.
I want you to experience that.
And I think that hopefully
is going to appeal to people
in the way
that we can never do on YouTube.
We can't give you that experience,
you know?
So I think it's a way to grow our message.
I think it's a really powerful way
to tell this story
I think the YouTube can help the book
and the film,
and the book and the film
can help the YouTube and together,
I think these two things together can help
us build
this into a political movement.
I didn't start this
YouTube to have a YouTube, You know.
I started this YouTube
to change fucking policy
and I think this is the way that we do
So I should mention
because obviously we're doing the book,
the publishers will kill me if I don't.
The book is called The Trading Game.
The Trading Game:
A Confession by me, Gary Stevenson.
Comes out on March 5th.
I would love for you to support it.
I would love you to preorder
it. I'd love you to buy it.
The more preorders
we get, the more chance we have to come in
at number one and blow it up.
We have a discount code from Waterstones,
which is TTG2024.
The trading game, 2024.
TTG2024, which should get you 20% off.
We are going to
have book signing events
across the country.
At the moment I think
we're going to have them in London,
Bristol, Bath,
Liverpool, Manchester,
Edinburgh
and Dublin is what I think we have so far.
As soon as I have dates
I'll put them down.
But you know, I know
we haven't done any public events yet,
so if people want to come meet me,
get a book signed,
we’ll put those events up.
But I know it's a bit of a change
from what we’re doing. But
I'm really excited about the book.
I think it's really good.
You know,
I'd love the support of the viewers
and if you want to buy the book,
this is it.
The Trading Game, Gary Stevenson.
I honestly think it's just
an exciting read.
The cameraman’s read it.
He seems to like it
so I hope you will too.
But thank you.
And, you know, we'll keep the videos
coming.
More about economics,
more about the book, thank you.